Alright, here it comes.
My other favorite section: tools.
You know, I own something
like 50-60 lifetime licenses,
and I partner with a lot of these guys
back in the days when I was running the agency. So
I've seen it all. I tested them all, just for
fun at the beginning. Then it became the job. And
I built infrastructures that go from like
just a bunch of emails a day to
managing 20 to 30 thousand
leads a month. So I will help
you with the framework, and you will
see that attached is the
guide that I wrote for another startup
about tools, so you can download that and find
them. Yeah, an additional, more in-depth guide about
what we are seeing today. So let's go
with the mistakes. So the mistake is basically:
you're feeding your inner kid when it comes to tools. At
least that's what happens with me. Flashing lights,
we chase features because we get promised that
there is this database that works particularly well.
But guys, sales and software are two different things.
You can do just fine and well enough
in the early days with a CRM and a
structured sales playbook. And perhaps I'll tell
you later on what the sales playbook is. Or
if you're at the point where
you need to scale, you must consider
quite a few things. So let's
move on and see. As I was mentioning,
you have a good market. So when you're validating, you're validating.
You don't need much. But when you're scaling, you need
to think: how can I scale? How many leads
do I need? So I need basically, and we'll see that
in the last chapter, how to reverse engineer
that. So we will think it this way: We'll
think I will convert 5-10%
of users coming down to demo.
I need a scalable system that books me 10%
of the meetings from emails that I send
out. How many prospects do I need? And
within this, which channels
do I use? Do I need to integrate with the CRM? How
easy is that? Okay. So
and all the other things. So we go
into the tool evaluation phase. Now, there
are kind of three main sets of tools that
I would like to talk to you about. The first
and the easiest one for you, especially in the early
begin and early phase, is an all-around tool.
For instance, one of the
most famous is Apollo. Obviously, you have a tool that is a database. But also, you can send
a bunch of emails, and you can do a bunch of outreach actions.
Then you have LinkedIn-only tools,
you have email-only tools, phone-only tools,
and multi-channel tools that don't have a database.
So perhaps in these tools, you can
build a side of actions so they go from LinkedIn
to email. But you need to feed in
your database within that. Then you
have databases. Okay, so
databases. You can either
find them online. So for instance,
you're selling to hotels. You can find hotel databases
online, or you can scrape them. Okay? So you can scrape
data in many ways. You remember we're talking about communities. We
were talking about posts. There are actually tools that
will allow you to scrape certain posts on
LinkedIn or other social media and do outreach
on these exact people. So you can be specifically on point
because they fit your ICP. Within
that case, you will need an
enrichment tool that kind of helps you out,
filtering what data is good, what data is not good. So if
the person from the company, and they will
also give you the email address and other
couple data that then you can plug in
into your multi-channel tool.
Okay, so these are the three types. Ultimately, you're
gonna need an outreach tool, and you're gonna need some sort
of database. If you're not going for an all-around solution, but again,
it depends on the go-to-market and the channels.
So I prepared a few
examples. So let's say that you are a small
SaaS, selling as a small
SaaS, loading to your clients. You need to
come on to the leads. You're going email only. You use Mailchimp or something like that. So you need integration. If you can manage
everything from there, it's bonus point: ease of
use. So then I can hire junior staff for it,
to be managed, or a
VA—a virtual assistant—and I
need to be rolling out constant solutions.
And I want to personalize the messages. So
this is the features that I need. So
listed from the variables. And
so if also there is a benefit
to buying domains and buying email addresses directly
from them, that is a huge bonus point. So I'm
going to be looking on the market
for something that fits these
exact needs. Okay. Instead,
if I'm selling B2B SaaS with high average
value of the leads, and I need much lower
volume but I need ease of use, I need some kind
of BDR and prospecting that is a little bit more
on point with leads included, I will go
for another round. A tool that can enhance productivity,
can go multi-channel, can be integrated, can have reporting,
and yeah, this is basically it.
Now, there is a cheat sheet here.
So there are a bunch of tools
that I already partnered with. So for
all-around, we have Apollo, Chrono, Lemlist. I'm giving
you a couple of automation tools that
are a little bit easier or a little bit
harder to learn. It really depends on your ICP
and how on-point you want to be, and
yeah, the stage of the startup. At
the beginning, I usually recommend doing
structured work. So even with the
support of the SaaS, but really do things manually, so you
can learn all along the way. The more you learn, the
more you'll find a tool that really fits you like a
glove. And
yeah, if you have questions about these tools, let me know. But also,
again, I'll be sharing my guide.
So the key takeaways for this are:
go-to-market rules the numbers. We'll see the
next lesson. The absolutely 100% rule
is scalable. So we need to think limits. Of course,
if we are handling cold calling, we need X
amount of people. Same for LinkedIn profiles, same
for email. Which you will need eventually: domains
and X amount of emails per domain. And yeah, so
you need to think about this when you're picking
up a tool. And of course, it has to be effective. I don't
know. Again, it depends on the stage you're at. So if
you really have a CRM or if you're really setting up automation,
tools like Make, Airtable, and then such. So of course, you need some kind
of flexibility from the perspective.
Okay, so next up, we will see the
operational side
of it. So tracking, APIs, and all the kind of stuff.
And yeah, see you next.